The University of Melbourne 

POSITION DESCRIPTION 

MPMP Engagement Peer 

CLASSIFICATION 
 UOM 4.1 

SALARY 
 $48.04 per hour 
 
SUPERANNUATION 
 Employer contribution of 9.5% 
 
WORKING HOURS 
 10-16 hours weekly (approximately)
 
ASSIGNMENT DURATION 
 30 January – 8 March 2024 
 
BASIS OF EMPLOYMENT 
 Casual 
 
HOW TO APPLY 
 Applications close at 11:55pm AEDT on 5 November 2023. 
Please apply using your student email address, by submitting your application through this form. 
Resources on preparing application documents are available at: http://careers.unimelb.edu.au/students/applying-for-work 
 
CONTACT 
FOR ROLE RELATED ENQUIRIES ONLY 


 Ben White - Coordinator, Melbourne Peer Mentor Program Email ben.white@unimelb.edu.au 
Please do not send your application to this contact. Please use the form linked above. 
 
For information about working for the University of Melbourne, visit our website: about.unimelb.edu.au/careers 

 
Position Summary 
 
 
1. Business description 
Established in 1853, The University of Melbourne is a leading international university with a tradition of excellence in teaching and research. 
 
The main campus in Parkville is recognised as the hub of Australia’s premier knowledge precinct comprising eight hospitals, many leading research institutes and a wide-range of knowledge-based industries. 
 
With outstanding performance in international rankings, the University is at the forefront of higher education in the Asia-Pacific region and the world. 
 
2. About the MPMP Engagement Peer Role 
MPMP Engagement Peers play a key role in supporting the delivery of the Melbourne Peer Mentor Program through involvement in significant pre-semester engagement tasks. MPMP Engagement Peers will co-facilitate Peer Mentor training with SASS and faculty staff, building Peer Mentor capacity through the sharing of their experience and program knowledge and helping to ensure that new Mentors feel prepared, confident and competent to deliver mentor group sessions. 
 
Engagement Peers will also support delivery of MPMP Session 1 meetings at Orientation by providing on-the-ground assistance to ensure that Peer Mentors and mentees are able to find and engage with their meetings. MPMP Engagement Peers will also assist with a range of logistical duties to help ensure that these events run smoothly.  
 
Engagement Peers may also support Peer Mentors in the early weeks of semester through delivery of drop-in support sessions. 
 
MPMP Engagement Peers will be provided with support and training by professional staff in SASS and Faculties to prepare them for this role.
 
3. Key Dates 
 
Date 
 Activity 

19 October 
 Applications open 
 
5 November (11:55 PM) 
 Applications close 
 
6-10 November 
 Applications are shortlisted and candidates are contacted about progressing to an Assessment Centre 
 
22 November 
 Assessment Centre (virtual) 
 
27 November – 1 December 
 Offers made to successful candidates 
 
30 January and 1 February 
 Compulsory training (on campus 
 
5 - 14 February 
 MPMP mentor training delivery (on campus) 
 
19 – 22 February 
 MPMP Session 1 events (on campus) 

4.
 Selection Criteria •
 A current University of Melbourne student studying in Semester 1, 2024 

•
 A previous/current MPMP Melbourne Peer Mentor who has delivered at least five •
 In good academic standing (not At Risk) 

•
 A student with no history of academic misconduct 

•
 Confident with group presentation skills and speaking to large audiences 

•
 Located in Melbourne and able to attend campus regularly across the duration of the role (30 January – 8 March) 

•
 Able to attend two training sessions on campus on 30 January and 1 February 

•
 Available to co-deliver multiple group training sessions in Weeks -2 and -1 (5-14 February) and to assist with daily delivery of MPMP events during Orientation (19-23 February) 

•
 Prior to commencing in the role, successful candidates must hold a current Employee Working with Children Check 
 
4.1 ELIGIBILITY C RITER IA 
Applicants interested in this role must be: 
 
group sessions 
 
4.2 ESSENTIA L 
 
Applicants interested in this role should be able to demonstrate the following skills: 
  Teamwork and collaboration – Engagement Peers should be able to demonstrate effective interpersonal skills; actively find way to build positive and productive working relationships with work colleagues; always be respectful of others; adapt their personal style to suit specific situations or groups 

  Excellent written and verbal Communication – Demonstrate effective and adaptable communication skills, strong verbal and written skills, presentation skills and interpersonal communication skills, including the ability to liaise with a wide range of stakeholders. 

  Problem solving and initiative - Possess the ability to dissect information and make evidence-based decisions. Able to identify data patterns and check for errors consistently. 

  Event management - Action oriented, able to make a clear plan and be self- organised, self-regulated and manage work in order to meet deadlines in a fast-paced and complex environment. 

 
5. Key Responsibilities 
 
MPMP Engagement Peers will be responsible for a range of engagement activities, including: 
 
•
 Facilitate Melbourne Peer Mentor training sessions in Week -2 and -1, including: o
 Share experiences and knowledge with Peer Mentors 

o
 Run facilitation skills and knowledge-sharing sessions 

o
 Move and distribute hoodies to Peer Mentors 

o
 Host social activities for Peer Mentors post training 

o
 Space set-up and pack-down 
•
 Assist with delivery of MPMP Session 1 meetings in Orientation, including: o
 Transportation and assembly/disassembly of program assets (lollipop signs, flags, etc.) 

o
 Wayfinding and directing students to ensure they find their meeting locations 

o
 Running group sessions where mentors are unable to attend 

o
 Event set-up and pack-down 

•
 Other duties, as directed 


6. Equal Opportunity, Diversity and Inclusion 
 
The University is an equal opportunity employer and is committed to providing a workplace free from all forms of unlawful discrimination, harassment, bullying, vilification and victimisation. The University makes decisions on employment, promotion and reward on the basis of merit. 
The University is committed to all aspects of equal opportunity, diversity and inclusion in the workplace and to providing all staff, students, contractors, honorary appointees, volunteers and visitors with a safe, respectful and rewarding environment free from all forms of unlawful discrimination, harassment, vilification and victimisation. This commitment is set out in the University’s People Strategy 2015-2020 and policies that address diversity and inclusion, equal employment opportunity, discrimination, sexual harassment, bullying and appropriate workplace behaviour. All staff are required to comply with all University policies. 
The University values diversity because we recognise that the differences in our people’s age, race, ethnicity, culture, gender, nationality, sexual orientation, physical ability and background bring richness to our work environment. Consequently, the People Strategy sets out the strategic aim to drive diversity and inclusion across the University to create an environment where the compounding benefits of a diverse workforce are recognised as vital in our continuous desire to strive for excellence and reach the targets of Growing Esteem. 
 
 
7. Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) 
All staff are required to take reasonable care for their own health and safety and that of other personnel who may be affected by their conduct. 
OHS responsibilities applicable to positions are published at: http://safety.unimelb.edu.au/topics/responsibilities/ 
These include general staff responsibilities and those additional responsibilities that apply for Managers and Supervisors and other Personnel. 
